APIs and services
Every day you access information on your phone, like reading the news, purchasing 
goods and services or communicating with friends over social media. 
But how is all this information transferred behind the scenes? 
Your favorite websites and apps. 
Probably use API's and as a web developer, you'll discover that API's developer 
friendly, easily accessible and a very valuable and useful development tool. 
A PI is the acronym for application programming interface. 
An API is a set of functions and procedures for 
creating applications that access the features or data of an operating system, 
application or other service. 
If this still sounds a bit vague, just remember that the term API, 
is intentionally open too many applications and use cases. 
As a web developer, a lot of the day to day job involves working with API's. 
Some common API's that web developers work with include Browser, 
API REST API and Sensor-Based API. 
Over the next few minutes, you'll explore each of these API types and 
review a few specific examples. 
To begin with, here's a brief outline of how a piecewise functions. 
In Software development, 
API's are often the bridge between different components or systems. 
This earns them names like gateway or middleware. 
The term is used widely to represent many different tools and systems. 
Let's consider some examples of different API use cases. 
One common type of API, is Browser or Web APIs, 
which are built into the browser itself. 
They extend the functionality of the browser by adding new services and 
are designed to simplify complex functions and provide easy syntax for 
building advanced features. 
A good example, is the DOM API. 
The DOM API turns the html document into a tree of nodes that 
are represented as JavaScript objects. 
Another example, is the geolocation API that returns coordinates of where 
the browser is located. 
There are also other API's available for fetching data known as Fetch API drawing, 
graphics or Canvas API keeping history or history API. 
And client side storage also known as Web Storage API. 
Another critical type of API for web development is the RESTful or REST API. 
This kind of API provides data for popular web and mobile apps. 
These are also called web servers. 
Let's explore REST in a bit more detail. 
REST or representational state transfer, 
is a set of principles that help build highly efficient API's. 
One of the main responsibilities of these kinds of API's is sending and 
receiving data to and from a centralized database. 
We can query our own REST API or third party ones. 
One last type of API, 
that you might encounter as a web developer is a Sensor-Based API. 
This is what the internet of things also known as IOT is based on. 
These are actual physical senses that are interconnected with each other. 
The sensors can communicate through API and track and respond to physical data. 
Some examples are Philips hue, smart lights and node bots. 
That's a lot of API to think about. 
Fortunately, for web developers the most common data API is a RESTtful API which 
as you've learned is a web server that provides responses to requests. 
These API web servers are designed to provide the data backbone for 
a web client like a web page or mobile app. 
This means that these API's must be able to accomplish things like getting data or 
get, creating data. 
Also referred to as post updating data or put and deleting data or delete. 
API issues, REST principles and 
good design practices to create discoverable interfaces. 
This helps us get the exact response expected. 
But exactly how do they work? 
Here's a closer description of their activity. 
These API's use endpoints to specify how different resources can be accessed. 
The endpoint is built into the URL when accessing the API. 
Once the endpoint is hit, the API performs whatever service side 
processing is needed to build the response. 
Two common forms of response are full web page is a data form based on 
JavaScript called Jason. 
In this video, you explored some API's and as a web developer, 
you will frequently work with many different types of API's. 
You will often use API's to extend the abilities of systems or 
to act as a bridge between different components.

Indonesian:
Setiap hari Anda mengakses informasi di ponsel Anda, seperti membaca berita, membeli
barang dan jasa atau berkomunikasi dengan teman melalui media sosial.
Tapi bagaimana semua informasi ini ditransfer di belakang layar?
Situs web dan aplikasi favorit Anda.
Mungkin menggunakan API dan sebagai pengembang web, Anda akan menemukan pengembang API itu
ramah, mudah diakses dan alat pengembangan yang sangat berharga dan berguna.
PI adalah singkatan dari antarmuka pemrograman aplikasi.
API adalah sekumpulan fungsi dan prosedur untuk
membuat aplikasi yang mengakses fitur atau data dari sistem operasi,
aplikasi atau layanan lainnya.
Jika ini masih terdengar agak kabur, ingat saja bahwa istilah API,
sengaja membuka terlalu banyak aplikasi dan kasus penggunaan.
Sebagai pengembang web, banyak pekerjaan sehari-hari melibatkan bekerja dengan API.
Beberapa API umum yang digunakan oleh pengembang web termasuk Browser,
API REST API dan API Berbasis Sensor.
Selama beberapa menit berikutnya, Anda akan mempelajari setiap jenis API ini dan
meninjau beberapa contoh spesifik.
Untuk memulainya, inilah garis besar singkat tentang bagaimana fungsi sepotong-sepotong.
Dalam pengembangan perangkat lunak,
API seringkali menjadi jembatan antara berbagai komponen atau sistem.
Ini memberi mereka nama seperti gateway atau middleware.
Istilah ini digunakan secara luas untuk mewakili banyak alat dan sistem yang berbeda.
Mari pertimbangkan beberapa contoh kasus penggunaan API yang berbeda.
Salah satu jenis API yang umum, adalah Browser atau Web API,
yang dibangun ke dalam browser itu sendiri.
Mereka memperluas fungsionalitas browser dengan menambahkan layanan baru dan
dirancang untuk menyederhanakan fungsi yang kompleks dan menyediakan sintaks yang mudah
membangun fitur canggih.
Contoh yang bagus, adalah DOM API.
DOM API mengubah dokumen html menjadi pohon node yang
direpresentasikan sebagai objek JavaScript.
Contoh lain, adalah API geolokasi yang mengembalikan koordinat dari mana
browser berada.
Ada juga API lain yang tersedia untuk mengambil data yang dikenal sebagai gambar Fetch API,
grafik atau API penyimpanan API Kanvas atau API riwayat.
Dan penyimpanan sisi klien juga dikenal sebagai Web Storage API.
Jenis API penting lainnya untuk pengembangan web adalah RESTful atau REST API.
Jenis API ini menyediakan data untuk aplikasi web dan seluler populer.
Ini juga disebut server web.
Mari jelajahi REST dengan sedikit lebih detail.
REST atau transfer negara representasional,
adalah seperangkat prinsip yang membantu membangun API yang sangat efisien.
Salah satu tanggung jawab utama API semacam ini adalah mengirim dan
menerima data ke dan dari database terpusat.
Kami dapat meminta REST API kami sendiri atau pihak ketiga.
Satu jenis API terakhir,
yang mungkin Anda temui sebagai pengembang web adalah API Berbasis Sensor.
Inilah yang menjadi dasar internet of things yang juga dikenal sebagai IOT.
Ini adalah indera fisik aktual yang saling berhubungan satu sama lain.
Sensor dapat berkomunikasi melalui API dan melacak serta merespons data fisik.
Beberapa contohnya adalah rona Philips, lampu pintar, dan bot node.
Itu banyak API untuk dipikirkan.
Untungnya, untuk pengembang web, data API yang paling umum adalah RESTtful API yang
seperti yang telah Anda pelajari adalah server web yang memberikan respons terhadap permintaan.
Server web API ini dirancang untuk menyediakan tulang punggung data
klien web seperti halaman web atau aplikasi seluler.
Artinya, API ini harus dapat melakukan hal-hal seperti mendapatkan data atau
dapatkan, membuat data.
Disebut juga sebagai post update data atau put and delete data atau delete.
Masalah API, prinsip REST dan
praktik desain yang baik untuk membuat antarmuka yang dapat ditemukan.
Ini membantu kami mendapatkan respons tepat yang diharapkan.
Tapi bagaimana cara kerjanya?
Berikut deskripsi lebih dekat tentang aktivitas mereka.
API ini menggunakan titik akhir untuk menentukan cara sumber daya yang berbeda dapat diakses.
Titik akhir dibangun ke dalam URL saat mengakses API.
Setelah titik akhir tercapai, API melakukan sisi layanan apa pun
pemrosesan diperlukan untuk membangun respons.
Dua bentuk respons yang umum adalah halaman web penuh adalah formulir data berdasarkan
JavaScript disebut Jason.
Di video ini, Anda menjelajahi beberapa API dan sebagai pengembang web,
Anda akan sering bekerja dengan berbagai jenis API.
Anda akan sering menggunakan API untuk memperluas kemampuan sistem atau
untuk bertindak sebagai jembatan antara komponen yang berbeda.
