Intro to HTML, CSS and Javascript
The web pages you visit every day are based on three core technologies, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. 
Together, they enable you to create web pages and applications so you can offer any content you have seen online. 
In this video, I will demonstrate two examples you can create using these technologies. 
This is to help you understand how they interact with one another.
Don't worry, you won't need to deal with the details of the three languages just yet. 
In the first example, I'm building a web page that displays a digital clock. 
It shows the hour, minutes, and seconds. The time is updated every second. 
I will work with three files, an HTML, a CSS, and a JavaScript file and you will explore the purpose of each one of them. 
To create the clock element, Let's first define our HTML code in a file called clock.html. 
The HTML code has an element that describes the content in hours, minutes, and seconds. 
If I only use the HTML file, the content would be shown without any style positioning or sizing, just simply as a display of six zeros representing time in the format of hours: minutes: seconds.
To apply styles to the HTML element, the HTML code references a CSS file called styles.css.
The web browser retrieves the styles.css file and processes it. The CSS code provides styling for the clock. 
It tells the browser the position, size, color, background, and font type, and size of each element on the screen. 
With that information, the browser updates the content and the sequence of zeros and colons now display a digital clock. Finally, 
we need to ensure the clock updates with the correct time. This is where JavaScript comes in. The HTML references a JavaScript file called clock.js.
The browser will retrieve clock.js and process it. 
The JavaScript file contains code that every second updates the content of the hour, minute, and second elements. 
With the three files created and linked together, your clock is fully functional. 
The clock example demonstrates JavaScript dynamically updating content. JavaScript can also be used for interaction. 
The next example demonstrates how JavaScript can be used interactively. 
It's a web page that plays a video. Below the video, there is a button that plays or pauses the video. The button contains a play icon.
My HTML page describes the content, which is the video element and the Play button element. 
The HTML code references a CSS file that the browser retrieves. It applies the styling to the video and button. 
The code in the HTML file also references a JavaScript file. The browser will retrieve the videoplayer.js file and process it. 
In our example, the code in the JavaScript file performs four actions. Firstly, it registers a listener on the button that will execute some code when the button is clicked. 
The second function is that when the code runs, it checks the current state of the video.
The result of that check is, if the video is currently stopped, it begins playing the video and changes the buttons icon to a stop icon. 
Or if the video is currently playing, it stops playing the video and changes the buttons icon to a play icon.
Using the three files you create a fully interactive video player. 
A summary of your functioning video player application is when the user first sees a page, the video will be stopped by default.
When they click the Play button, the button will change to a stop icon and the video will begin playing. 
When they click the button again, it will change back to a play button and the video will stop playing. 
I hope those examples give you an idea of how the three core files link and work together. 
In both the clock and video examples the HTML file references the CSS and the JavaScript files.
The CSS file is called on to format and style your application, and the code in the JavaScript file implements the core functions of the app and user interactivity.



Indonesia:
Pengenalan HTML, CSS dan Javascript
Halaman web yang Anda kunjungi setiap hari adalahberdasarkan tiga teknologi inti,HTML, CSS, dan JavaScript.
Bersama-sama, mereka memungkinkan Anda untuk membuat halaman web danaplikasi sehingga Anda bisamenawarkan konten apa pun yang Anda lihat online.
Dalam video ini, saya akan menunjukkandua contoh yang dapat Anda buat menggunakan teknologi ini.
Ini untuk membantu Anda memahamibagaimana mereka berinteraksi satu sama lain.Jangan khawatir,
Anda tidak perlu berurusan denganrincian dari tiga bahasa dulu.Pada contoh pertama,Saya sedang membangun halaman web yang menampilkan jam digital.
Ini menunjukkan jam, menit, dan detik.Waktu diperbarui setiap detik.
Saya akan bekerja dengan tiga file,HTML, CSS,dan file JavaScript danAnda akan menjelajahi tujuan masing-masing dari mereka.
Untuk membuat elemen jam,Pertama mari kita tentukan kode HTML kitadalam file bernama clock html.
Kode HTML memiliki elemen yangmenggambarkan konten dalam jam, menit, dan detik.
Jika saya hanya menggunakan file HTML,konten akan ditampilkan tanpa adapenentuan posisi gaya atau ukuran,
hanya sebagai tampilan dari enam angka nol yang mewakiliwaktu dalam format jam: menit: detik.
Untuk menerapkan gaya ke elemen HTML,kode HTML mereferensikan file CSS yang disebut styles.css.
Browser web mengambil filefile styles.css dan memprosesnya.Kode CSS menyediakan gaya untuk jam.
Ini memberitahu browser posisi, ukuran, warna,latar belakang, dan jenis font,dan ukuran setiap elemen di layar.
Dengan informasi tersebut,browser memperbarui konten danurutan nol dantitik dua sekarang menampilkan jam digital.
Akhirnya, kita perlu memastikanpembaruan jam dengan waktu yang tepat.Di sinilah JavaScript masuk.
HTML mereferensikan file JavaScript yang disebut clock.js.Browser akan mengambil clock.js dan memprosesnya.
File JavaScript berisi kode yangsetiap detik memperbarui konten jam,menit, dan elemen kedua.
Dengan tiga file yang dibuat dan ditautkan bersama,jam Anda berfungsi penuh.
Contoh jam menunjukkanJavaScript memperbarui konten secara dinamis.
JavaScript juga dapat digunakan untuk interaksi.Contoh berikutnya menunjukkan caranyaJavaScript dapat digunakan secara interaktif.
Ini adalah halaman web yang memutar video.Di bawah video, adatombol yang memutar atau menjeda video.Tombol tersebut berisi ikon putar.
Halaman HTML saya menjelaskan konten,yang merupakan elemen video dan elemen tombol Putar.Referensi kode HTMLfile CSS yang diambil browser.
Ini menerapkan gaya ke video dan tombol.Kode dalam file HTMLjuga mereferensikan file JavaScript.Browser akan mengambil filefile videoplayer.
js dan memprosesnya.Dalam contoh kita, kode difile JavaScript melakukan empat tindakan.
Pertama, ini mendaftarkan pendengartombol yang akan dijalankanbeberapa kode saat tombol diklik.
Fungsi kedua adalah ketika kode dijalankan,itu memeriksa status video saat ini.
Hasil pemeriksaan itu adalah,jika video saat ini dihentikan,itu mulai memutar video danmengubah ikon tombol menjadi ikon berhenti.
Atau jika video sedang diputar,itu berhenti memutar video danmengubah ikon tombol menjadi ikon putar.
Menggunakan tiga file Andabuat pemutar video yang sepenuhnya interaktif.
Ringkasan aplikasi pemutar video Anda yang berfungsiadalah saat pengguna pertama kali melihat halaman,video akan dihentikan secara default.
Saat mereka mengklik tombol Putar,tombol akan berubah menjadiikon berhenti dan video akan mulai diputar.
Ketika mereka mengklik tombol lagi,itu akan berubah kembali menjadi tombol putardan video akan berhenti diputar.
Saya harap contoh-contoh itu memberi Anda gambaran tentang caranyatiga file inti terhubung dan bekerja bersama.
Baik dalam jam maupun videocontoh referensi file HTMLfile CSS dan JavaScript.
File CSS dipanggiluntuk memformat dan menata aplikasi Anda,dan kode dalam implementasi file JavaScriptfungsi inti aplikasi dan interaktivitas pengguna.
