Module Summary - Get started with Web Development
You've reached the end of this module on web development. 
Over the course of this module, you've explored the basics of how the web works 
and familiarize yourself with key concepts in core internet technologies. 
Let's recap the key skills that you gained along the way. 
You started the module with an overview of how the web works and 
explored the basics of web pages, web servers and web browsers. 
In terms of web pages, you should now be able to, differentiate 
between a website and a web page by outlining the key elements of each. 
Outline the purpose of html and CSS and provide an explanation of how they work. 
And identify the benefits that Javascript provides to a web page like 
interactivity and data processing. 
You've also explored the basics of web servers, and should be able 
to explain how a data center provides storage and power for web servers. 
Differentiate between the key functions of web server hardware and 
software and outline how a web server handles requests through HTTP or 
hypertext transfer protocol. 
And you explored the third key technology of the web, which is web browsers. 
Following this exploration, you should now be able to, explain what a web browser is, 
describe how a web browser receives content from a web server and 
displays it for users and outline the request response cycle. 
After your study of how the web works, you investigated core internet technologies. 
You should now be able to explain the concept of IP addresses and 
how they facilitate the transfer of data across the internet, demonstrate 
an understanding of how HTTP functions and identify common HTTP methods and 
outline how HTMl, CSS and Javascript interact with one another. 
To generate web pages, differentiate between a web page, website and 
web app, identify the front end and back end of a web app and 
list common web browser developer tools. 
And finally, you should be able to demonstrate an understanding of 
libraries and frameworks along with their advantages and disadvantages, 
identify an application programming interface or API and 
explain how its utilized in application development and explained the purpose and 
benefits of an IDE or integrated development environment. 
Now that you have completed this module, you should be able to demonstrate your 
knowledge of the basic concepts of how the web works. 
And you've also demonstrated your understanding of core Internet 
technologies. 
You've made a great start on your learning journey. 
Excellent work.

Indonesia:
Ringkasan Modul - Memulai Pengembangan Web
Anda telah mencapai bagian akhir dari modul pengembangan web ini.
Selama modul ini, Anda telah menjelajahi dasar-dasar cara kerja web
dan biasakan diri Anda dengan konsep kunci dalam teknologi inti internet.
Mari rekap keterampilan utama yang Anda peroleh selama ini.
Anda memulai modul dengan ikhtisar tentang cara kerja web dan
menjelajahi dasar-dasar halaman web, server web, dan browser web.
Dalam hal halaman web, Anda sekarang harus dapat membedakan
antara situs web dan halaman web dengan menguraikan elemen kunci dari masing-masing.
Garis besar tujuan html dan CSS dan berikan penjelasan tentang cara kerjanya.
Dan kenali manfaat yang diberikan Javascript ke halaman web seperti
interaktivitas dan pemrosesan data.
Anda juga telah menjelajahi dasar-dasar server web, dan seharusnya bisa
untuk menjelaskan bagaimana pusat data menyediakan penyimpanan dan daya untuk server web.
Bedakan antara fungsi utama perangkat keras server web dan
perangkat lunak dan garis besar bagaimana server web menangani permintaan melalui HTTP atau
protokol transfer hiperteks.
Dan Anda menjelajahi teknologi kunci ketiga dari web, yaitu browser web.
Setelah penjelajahan ini, Anda seharusnya sekarang dapat menjelaskan apa itu browser web,
menjelaskan bagaimana browser web menerima konten dari server web dan
menampilkannya untuk pengguna dan menguraikan siklus respons permintaan.
Setelah mempelajari cara kerja web, Anda menyelidiki teknologi inti internet.
Anda sekarang harus dapat menjelaskan konsep alamat IP dan
bagaimana mereka memfasilitasi transfer data di internet, tunjukkan
pemahaman tentang bagaimana fungsi HTTP dan mengidentifikasi metode HTTP umum dan
garis besar bagaimana HTML, CSS dan Javascript berinteraksi satu sama lain.
Untuk menghasilkan halaman web, bedakan antara halaman web, situs web, dan
aplikasi web, mengidentifikasi ujung depan dan ujung belakang aplikasi web dan
daftar alat pengembang browser web umum.
Dan terakhir, Anda harus bisa menunjukkan pemahaman tentang
library dan framework beserta kelebihan dan kekurangannya,
mengidentifikasi antarmuka pemrograman aplikasi atau API dan
menjelaskan bagaimana penggunaannya dalam pengembangan aplikasi dan menjelaskan tujuan dan
manfaat dari IDE atau lingkungan pengembangan terintegrasi.
Sekarang setelah Anda menyelesaikan modul ini, Anda harus dapat mendemonstrasikan
pengetahuan tentang konsep dasar tentang cara kerja web.
Dan Anda juga telah menunjukkan pemahaman Anda tentang Internet inti
teknologi.
Anda telah membuat awal yang baik dalam perjalanan belajar Anda.
Kerja bagus.
