When a team of builders begin constructing a building. One of their key tasks is to assemble the frame. It doesn't matter what kind of building it is, it always starts with a frame of beams and rafters. Once in place, the frame guides the rest of the construction. If you compare a building with a web page an HTML document is a lot like the frame. It's a basic structure assembled with different components such as tags and elements. In this video, you will learn about HTML documents and the difference between HTML tags and elements. To begin, let me tell you a short story about where it all started. Sir Tim Berners-Lee, a physicist, often thought about how he and his colleagues from around the world would share information. He was so used to browsing information online that it might seem a silly thing to ponder about. Actually, that question was very relevant at the time and started the development of HTML. Would you like to explore the very first web page? I know just where to find it. The first web page was created in 1999 by Sir Tim Berners-Lee. He worked at the European Organization for Nuclear Research or CERN, and originally proposed HTML. The first version of HTML was released in 1991 along with the first web browser and web server. HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. But what does that mean exactly? Hypertext is text which contains links to other text. Markup refers to tags and elements used within a document. For now, let's just focus on some of the basics of HTML. HTML is simply a text file with a specific structure that consists of elements and tags. Also take note that HTML files usually have a dot HTML suffix. For instance, when you visit a website, the first page that is returned to the browser is often called index.html. Now, let's explore what HTML tags and elements are. Each HTML element consists of an opening tag enclosed in angle brackets. For example, to create a paragraph, you type <p> for paragraph. Most elements are paired with a closing tag, which has a forward slash off to the left angle bracket. For example, you close the paragraph element with </p>.

HTML elements usually have some content inside them. For example, between the opening and closing tags of a paragraph, you add the text of the paragraph you want to write. HTML elements can also contain other elements. For example, you can add an italics element inside a paragraph element to make texts appear in italics. But elements can also be empty or self-closing, meaning they do not have a closing HTML tag. One example of a self-closing element is the line break tag. You can add a line break tag in a paragraph tag to move content to the following line by typing <br>. At the end of a self-closing tag, you simply add a right angle bracket. You can also close the right angle bracket by typing a forward slash right before it. Now that you know what elements and tags are, you will explore what HTML standards are. The rules and structure for elements and tags are known as the HTML specification. The HTML specification is maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium, or W3C as it is commonly known. Whenever the HTML specification changes a new version of HTML is standardized, the current version is HTML5. To summarize, HTML elements with their opening and closing tags in angle brackets build up an HTML document. These elements form the structure of a web page and describe to the web browser what to display. For example, the browser reads an HTML page that has an image tags display an image file called icon.png. Next, it reads a p tag to display a paragraph under that image. But the browser reads the HTML document and displays the web page to the user in a very basic format. Now, if you want to tell the browser how to display the web page, you should use CSS. You will learn more about CSS in this course. By now, you have learned how HTML tags are used to create elements that build the structure of a web page. You'll have an opportunity to explore HTML inaction in this course.


Indonesia:
Ketika tim pembangun mulai membangun sebuah bangunan.Salah satu tugas utama mereka adalah merakit bingkai.Tidak peduli apa jenis bangunan itu,selalu dimulai dengan bingkai balok dan kasau.Setelah di tempat, bingkaimemandu sisa konstruksi.Jika Anda membandingkan sebuah bangunan dengan halaman webdokumen HTML sangat mirip dengan bingkai.Ini adalah struktur dasar yang dirakitkomponen yang berbeda seperti tag dan elemen.Dalam video ini, Anda akan belajar tentangdokumen HTML dan perbedaannyaantara tag dan elemen HTML.Untuk memulai, izinkan saya memberi tahu Andasebuah cerita pendek tentang di mana semuanya dimulai.Sir Tim Berners-Lee, seorang fisikawan,sering memikirkan bagaimana dia dan rekan-rekannyadari seluruh dunia akan berbagi informasi.Dia begitu terbiasa mencari informasionline yang mungkin tampak konyol untuk direnungkan.Sebenarnya, pertanyaan itu sangat relevan diwaktu dan memulai pengembangan HTML.Apakah Anda ingin menjelajahi halaman web pertama?Aku tahu di mana menemukannya.Halaman web pertama dibuat di1999 oleh Sir Tim Berners-Lee.Dia bekerja di Organisasi Eropa untukRiset Nuklir atau CERN,dan awalnya diusulkan HTML.Versi pertama dari HTML dirilis pada1991 bersamaan dengan web browser dan web server pertama.HTML adalah singkatan dari Hypertext Markup Language.Tapi apa artinya itu sebenarnya?Hypertext adalah teks yang berisi tautan ke teks lain.Markup mengacu pada tag danelemen yang digunakan dalam dokumen.Untuk saat ini, mari fokus pada beberapa dasar HTML.HTML hanyalah sebuah file teks denganstruktur spesifik yang terdiri dari elemen dan tag.Perhatikan juga bahwa file HTMLbiasanya memiliki akhiran dot HTML.Misalnya, ketika Anda mengunjungi sebuah situs web,halaman pertama yang dikembalikan ke browsersering disebut index.html.Sekarang, mari kita jelajahi apa itu tag dan elemen HTML.Setiap elemen HTML terdiri daritag pembuka tertutup dalam kurung siku.Misalnya untuk membuat paragraf,Anda mengetik <p> untuk paragraf.Sebagian besar elemen dipasangkan dengan tag penutup,yang memiliki garis miring ke depan ke braket sudut kiri.Misalnya, Anda menutup elemen paragraf dengan </p>.

Elemen HTML biasanya memiliki beberapa konten di dalamnya.Misalnya, di antara pembukaandan tag penutup paragraf,Anda menambahkan teks paragraf yang ingin Anda tulis.Elemen HTML juga dapat berisi elemen lain.Misalnya, Anda dapat menambahkan elemen miringdi dalam elemen paragrafuntuk membuat teks muncul dalam huruf miring.Tapi elemen juga bisa kosong atau menutup sendiri,artinya mereka tidak memiliki tag HTML penutup.Salah satu contoh elemen penutup diriadalah tag pemutus baris.Anda dapat menambahkan tag jeda baris dalam tag paragraf kepindahkan konten ke baris berikutnya dengan mengetikkan <br>.Di akhir tag penutup sendiri,Anda cukup menambahkan braket sudut siku-siku.Anda juga dapat menutup braket sudut kanandengan mengetik garis miring tepat sebelum itu.Sekarang setelah Anda tahu apa itu elemen dan tag,Anda akan menjelajahi apa itu standar HTML.Aturan dan struktur untuk elemen dan tagdikenal sebagai spesifikasi HTML.Spesifikasi HTML adalahdikelola oleh World Wide Web Consortium,atau W3C seperti yang biasa dikenal.Setiap kali spesifikasi HTML berubahversi baru HTML dibakukan,versi saat ini adalah HTML5.Untuk meringkas, elemen HTML dengantag pembuka dan penutup mereka masukkurung sudut membangun sebuah dokumen HTML.Elemen-elemen ini membentuk struktur halaman webdan jelaskan ke browser web apa yang akan ditampilkan.Misalnya, browser membaca halaman HTML yang memilikitag gambar menampilkan file gambar yang disebut icon.png.Selanjutnya, itu membaca tag apuntuk menampilkan paragraf di bawah gambar itu.Tetapi browser membaca dokumen HTML danmenampilkan halaman web kepada pengguna dalam format yang sangat mendasar.Sekarang, jika Anda ingin memberitahubrowser cara menampilkan halaman web,Anda harus menggunakan CSS.Anda akan mempelajari lebih lanjut tentang CSS dalam kursus ini.Sekarang, Anda telah mempelajari bagaimana tag HTML digunakanuntuk membuat elemen yangmembangun struktur halaman web.Anda akan memiliki kesempatan untuk menjelajahkelambanan HTML dalam kursus ini.
